# System Requirements

The version of AGS that we will be using throughout this book is 3.5.0 which is the latest version while we're writing this, so everything here will work if you are using that version of the editor.  You may use the newest version available even if it's newer than our version, and we'll promise not to hunt you down and pour hot sauce in your eyes, but some of the features of your fancy new version might be different from ours.  So, you've been warned.  Beware.  (We might decide to use Heinz 57 instead.)

AGS Editor will run on Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows 7, and Windows Vista and requires the .NET Framework 4.5 or later.   If you don't know what .NET Framework is, then you most likely don't need to worry about it, since your system probably has it installed anyway (it comes preinstalled with Windows these days.) You'll also need the [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2015](https://download.microsoft.com/download/6/A/A/6AA4EDFF-645B-48C5-81CC-ED5963AEAD48/vc_redist.x86.exe).

The games that you create using AGS have a different set of requirements (which makes sense when you think about it, since the game is a different program from the editor that you used to create the game).  AGS games will run on Windows of course (.NET Framwork is not required for the games themselves), and they will run on other systems as well, like Linux and Mac OS with a little tweaking.  We'll get into that in more detail in [Part 2](../../part2/chapter10/nonwindows.html) of the book, so hang tight.
